Gandyn
======

Your server has a dynamic IP address and you use Gandi as domain name server?
Then Gandyn is for you!

This is an unsecure script based on [Comète's work](http://gerard.geekandfree.org/blog/2012/03/01/debarrassez-vous-de-dyndns-en-utilisant-lapi-de-gandi/).
It uses Gandi XML-RPC service to update your DNS record.
Server public IP address is retrieved from [http://ifconfig.me](http://ifconfig.me).

As this is my first python "project", code might not be very pythonic. So, feel free to improve it :)

Prequisites
-----------
First of all you have to enable XML-RPC interface for your domain on Gandi web interface.
Gandi will then give you an API key. Copy paste it to your gandyn config file. 


Installation
------------

### Archlinux users:
There is a 'gandyn-git' package in AUR.

### Others:
The python standard way works.

    $ wget -O gandyn.tar.gz https://github.com/Chralu/gandyn/tarball/<version>
    $ tar xvzf gandyn.tar.gz
    $ cd gandyn/src/
    # python setup.py install
    
    
If you encounter issues with the xmlrpc.client missing module, you may try to install with Python 3.3 (or any other version 3 of python you may have)

    $ python3.3 setup.py install
  
Execution
---------
Gandyn gets its configuration from a simple python file. Config file syntax is described later.
To run Gandyn, use the command :

    gandyn.py --config <path to the config file>

To get Gandyn run every 5 minutes, add the following line to your crontab.

    */5 * * * * gandyn.py --config <path to the config file> 

Configuration
-------------
Configuration file is a simple python script that defines global constants.

This is unsecure, so it is important that nobody can change the config file content.

Here is a basic config file with default values:

    #API key generated by Gandi
    API_KEY = '' 
    
    #Name of the domain to update
    DOMAIN_NAME = 'mydomain.net'

    #Time to live of the updated record
    TTL = 300
    
    #Filters used to find the record to update.
    #By default, the updated record is "@   A   xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx"
    #Where 'xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx' is the updated value
    RECORD = {'type':'A', 'name':'@'}
    
    #Log level of the script. Values are :
    #   logging.DEBUG
    #   logging.INFO
    #   logging.WARNING
    #   logging.ERROR
    #   logging.CRITICAL
    LOG_LEVEL = logging.DEBUG
    
    #Path of the log file
    LOG_FILE = 'gandyn.log'

